By pursuing the MSc in Speech and Language Processing I hope to develop a keen understanding of speech perception and production, machine learning and artificial intelligence regarding natural language, and computational models of contextual semantics. My interest in these topics stems from my work as an undergraduate on the philosophy of language and embodied cognition. My undergraduate thesis was on the philosophy of language and cognition of Maurice Merleau-Ponty as influenced by Edmund Husserl and Ferdinand de Saussure. Merleau-Ponty's emphasis on the primacy of language in human cognition has been exceptionally influential on my studies: he holds that cognition is founded upon language to such an extent that our understanding of the world is shaped by the language we speak. In fact, language and thought are, according to Merleau-Ponty, to a great extent one.


It is this idea of language's role in cognition that drives me to pursue this MSc. I believe that an accurate computational model of natural language is indispensible to the field of artificial intelligence. The world is linguistic, and any intelligent being, artificial or not, must be able to accurately perceive and interpret natural language. Thus I wish to study how computer programs may perceive and generate speech, how they may learn natural language in an unsupervised environment, and how they may interpret language in context. I am particularly interested in learning about and developing computational models for word sense disambiguation and summarization of text and discourse. I also wish to study the relationship between natural language processing and computational ontologies.


To understand natural language is, I hold, to understand the world as it is lived by human beings. This MSc will give me the knowledge I need to develop applications that can tap into the human experience of language and the linguistic world in order to streamline our use of technology. I hope to apply the knowledge and experience I gain from this program to the development of real-world NLP applications that facilitate the way people interact with technology. I believe that this MSc program will give me the tools I need to contribute to the language technologies industry.
